RHDEVDOCS-5657-Document GitOps terminologies (#76514)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/gitops-openshift-go-common-terms.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * understanding_openshift_gitops/about-redhat-openshift-gitops.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="gitops-openshift-go-common-terms_{context}"]
= Glossary of common terms for OpenShift {gitops-shortname}

This glossary defines common OpenShift {gitops-shortname} terms.

Argo CD::
An open-source declarative tool that automates the continuous deployment (CD) of Kubernetes-based infrastructure and applications across clusters and development lifecycles.

{gitops-shortname}::
{gitops-shortname} is a declarative way to implement continuous deployment for cloud native applications. In {gitops-shortname}, a Git repository contains deployment resources, which Argo CD then keeps synchronizing with its cluster state.

{gitops-title}::
 An Operator that uses Argo CD as the declarative {gitops-shortname} engine for enabling {gitops-shortname} workflows across multicluster OpenShift and Kubernetes infrastructure.

> {gitops-shortname} CLI ({gitops-shortname} `argocd` CLI)::

Author: @eromanova97 Good question, I love it! `kubectl` is the upstream CLi for `oc`. But here, we have productized upstream's `argocd` CLI for RH and call it as the GitOps CLI or GitOps `argocd` CLI. In upstream they call is as the argo cd CLI.

> {gitops-shortname} CLI ({gitops-shortname} `argocd` CLI)::

Reviewer: Oh I see, thank you for the clarification!

A tool to configure and manage {gitops-title} and Argo CD resources from the command line. 

Control plane ({gitops-shortname} control plane)::

> In the {gitops-shortname} context, control plane is the `openshift-gitops` namespace, where, by default, the {gitops-title} installs an instance of Argo CD. This control plane allows you to provision, manage, and operate Argo CD across networks, instances, and clusters. Examples include a control plane repository wherein you can create one or more application custom resources and express an intent to deploy and sync Kubernetes manifests from Git.

Author: @eromanova97 Thanks for the suggestion. But I removed the example portion as it is not required now. Resolving comment as it is not relevant anymore.

> In the {gitops-shortname} context, control plane is the `openshift-gitops` namespace, where, by default, the {gitops-title} installs an instance of Argo CD. This control plane allows you to provision, manage, and operate Argo CD across networks, instances, and clusters. Examples include a control plane repository wherein you can create one or more application custom resources and express an intent to deploy and sync Kubernetes manifests from Git.

Author: @eromanova97 Thanks for the suggestion. yes, intentionally we have kept it. In RH docs and OCP docs, we use the word control plane in various places related to various components. We need to be specific here and that is why at a few places we retain the  `In the {gitops-shortname} context,` starter.

+
Within the `openshift-gitops` namespace, Argo CD maintains a set of following Kubernetes resources, which define the continuous deployment between the source Git repository and destination clusters:

* Argo CD `Application` custom resources (CRs)
* `ConfigMap` API objects
* `Secret` objects representing the {gitops-shortname} repository credentials and cluster credentials for deployment targets

Manifest::

> In the {gitops-shortname} context, a manifest is a YAML representation of Kubernetes resources defined within a {gitops-shortname} repository, with the intent to deploy those resources to a target Kubernetes cluster. An example of a manifest would be the YAML representation of resources such as `Deployment`, `ConfigMap`, or `Secret`.

Author: @eromanova97 Thanks for the suggestion. Here, we are mentioning as "within a {gitops-shortname} repository", hence I am retaining "In the {gitops-shortname} context".

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * understanding_openshift_gitops/about-redhat-openshift-gitops.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="gitops-openshift-go-common-terms_{context}"]
= Glossary of common terms for OpenShift {gitops-shortname}

> This glossary defines common OpenShift {gitops-shortname} terms.

Author: @Dhruv-Soni11 thanks for the suggestion. We are trying to be consistent with how we write the Glossary sentences in OCP for various components. So retaining the content as is.

Argo CD::
An open-source declarative tool that automates the continuous deployment (CD) of Kubernetes-based infrastructure and applications across clusters and development lifecycles.

{gitops-shortname}::

> {gitops-shortname} is a declarative way to implement continuous deployment for cloud native applications. In {gitops-shortname}, a Git repository contains deployment resources, which Argo CD then keeps synchronizing with its cluster state.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: Discard if you feel otherwise:

In {gitops-shortname}, a Git repository contains deployment resources, which Argo CD then keeps synchronizing with its cluster state. -> In {gitops-shortname}, deployment resources are stored in a Git repository, which Argo CD keeps synchronizing with its cluster state.

Author: @Dhruv-Soni11 Retaining the content as is, with active voice. Thanks for the suggestion, though.

{gitops-title}::
 An Operator that uses Argo CD as the declarative {gitops-shortname} engine for enabling {gitops-shortname} workflows across multicluster OpenShift and Kubernetes infrastructure.

{gitops-shortname} CLI ({gitops-shortname} `argocd` CLI)::
A tool to configure and manage {gitops-title} and Argo CD resources from the command line. 

Control plane ({gitops-shortname} control plane)::

> In the {gitops-shortname} context, control plane is the `openshift-gitops` namespace, where, by default, the {gitops-title} installs an instance of Argo CD. This control plane allows you to provision, manage, and operate Argo CD across networks, instances, and clusters. Examples include a control plane repository wherein you can create one or more application custom resources and express an intent to deploy and sync Kubernetes manifests from Git.

Reviewer 2: Question: In the second part of the sentence, should from Git -> from a Git repository?

Author: not relevant anymore as the concerned content part is removed.

+

> Within the `openshift-gitops` namespace, Argo CD maintains a set of following Kubernetes resources, which define the continuous deployment between the source Git repository and destination clusters:

Reviewer 3: ## 1)

The Argo CD control plane is any namespace that Argo CD is installed, rather than just the openshift-gitops namespace. 

Since openshift-gitops IS the default, that is also the default control plane, but if a user decides to install their own non-default Argo CD in a different namespace, then the control plane is different (not openshift-gitops).

I think we should tweak the definition's references to openshift-gitops to reflect that it is the default, but other namespaces can be control plane.

## 2)

I think this sentence can be removed: `Examples include a control plane repository wherein you can create one or more application custom resources and express an intent to deploy and sync Kubernetes manifests from Git.`

IMHO this is outside the definition of GitOps control plane (or, perhaps, is a secondary definition).

Author: > Since openshift-gitops IS the default, that is also the default control plane, but if a user decides to install their own non-default Argo CD in a different namespace, then the control plane is different (not openshift-gitops).

@jgwest Please elaborate on this. 

- Are you saying that users can change this default control plane namespace? So if I want to have `Sriabc` as the namespace to install Argo CD by default, then is that the new control plane for me?
- Also, what do you mean by non-default ArgoCD? If that is the user-defined control plane then why is it non-default? I am confused.

Author: Revised definition, thanks to @anandf's assistance in helping me understand this concept better:

In the {gitops-shortname} context, you can have a control plane for every Argo CD you install. A {gitops-shortname} control plane is any namespace, where, you can install an Argo CD along with its Argo CD instance. This control plane allows you to provision, manage, and operate Argo CD across networks, instances, and clusters. 
+
Within a control plane namespace, Argo CD maintains a set of following Kubernetes resources, which define the continuous deployment between the source Git repository and destination clusters:

* Argo CD `Application` custom resources (CRs)
* `ConfigMap` API objects
* `Secret` objects representing the {gitops-shortname} repository credentials and cluster credentials for deployment targets

By default, {gitops-title} installs an instance of Argo CD in the `openshift-gitops` control plane namespace with additional permissions for managing certain cluster-scoped resources. The {gitops-shortname} Operator manages this `openshift-gitops` namespace.

* Argo CD `Application` custom resources (CRs)
* `ConfigMap` API objects
* `Secret` objects representing the {gitops-shortname} repository credentials and cluster credentials for deployment targets

Manifest::

> In the {gitops-shortname} context, a manifest is a YAML representation of Kubernetes resources defined within a {gitops-shortname} repository, with the intent to deploy those resources to a target Kubernetes cluster. An example of a manifest would be the YAML representation of resources such as `Deployment`, `ConfigMap`, or `Secret`.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: Discard if you feel otherwise:

An example of a manifest would be the YAML representation of resources such as `Deployment`, `ConfigMap`, or `Secret`. - > An example of a manifest includes the YAML representation of resources such as `Deployment`, `ConfigMap`, or `Secret`.

Workload::
Any process usually defined within resources such as `Deployment`, `StatefulSet`, `ReplicaSet`, `Job`, or `Pod`, running within a container. Examples include a Spring Boot application, a NodeJS Express application, or a Ruby on Rails application.

Application::

> A group of Kubernetes resources as defined by a manifest. This is a Custom Resource Definition (CRD). An `Application` CRD is a resource object representing a deployed application instance in an environment.

Reviewer 2: Hi @Srivaralakshmi - Can we combine the second and third parts of the sentences into a single sentence to make it more minimalistic? Do we need to explicitly emphasize this being a CRD? Thanks.

Argo CD application::

> An Argo CD application tracks the continuous deployment of individual Kubernetes resources from the {gitops-shortname} repository, where the resources are defined as manifests, to a target Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 3: I think these two either need to be merged, or the following needs to be done. At present, the two appear to be conflicting definitions, when in reality, one is the CR, and one is the underlying concept.

Suggestion:

Application CR::
This is a Custom Resource Definition (CRD) representing an Argo CD application. An `Application` CRD is a resource object representing a deployed Argo CD application instance in an environment.

Argo CD application::
An Argo CD application tracks the continuous deployment of individual Kubernetes resource from the {gitops-shortname} repository, where the resources are defined as manifests, to a target Kubernetes cluster.

Declarative setup::

> A declarative description of the infrastructure you need in your specified environment, for system and application setup or configuration. You can specify this description in a YAML configuration file in the Git repository. The declarative setup contains an automated process to make your environment and infrastucture match the described state. Examples include defining Argo CD applications, projects and settings declaratively using YAML manifests.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: Discard if you feel otherwise:

A declarative description of the infrastructure you need in your specified environment, for system and application setup or configuration. -> A declarative description of the infrastructure required in your specified environment, for system and application setup or configuration.

Live state::
The live state of application resources on a target cluster.

Target state::
The desired state of application resources, as represented by files in a Git repository.

Sync::

> The process of synchronizing the live state of an application's cluster resources with the target state defined within Git to ensure consistency, by using the Argo CD UI. Examples include syncing an application by applying changes to a cluster.

Reviewer 3: I would remove `, by using the Argo CD UI`: sync can also be triggered using the `argocd` CLI, using the `argocd app sync` command.

If you wanted to retain the reference to the UI, you could update the second sentence like:
"Examples include syncing an application by applying changes to a cluster, _using the Argo CD UI._"

> The process of synchronizing the live state of an application's cluster resources with the target state defined within Git to ensure consistency, by using the Argo CD UI. Examples include syncing an application by applying changes to a cluster.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: Discard if you feel otherwise:

defined within Git to ensure consistency -> defined within the Git repository to ensure consistency?

Sync status::
The status of an application that indicates whether the live state matches the target state.

Refresh::

> The process to compare the latest code in Git with the live state and figure out the difference, by using the Argo CD UI. For example, in the Argo CD UI, when you click *Refresh*, Argo CD connects to an application's target Git repository, retrieves the content, and then generates manifests from that content. Argo CD then compares that target state against the live cluster state.

Reviewer 3: Likewise, I would suggest removing `by using the Argo CD UI` from the first sentence: like sync, refresh can  likewise can be triggered outside the UI (although I would guess that triggering refresh from the cli is a lot less common than sync)

Fortunately, the second sentence still mentions the UI, which is perfect.

> The process to compare the latest code in Git with the live state and figure out the difference, by using the Argo CD UI. For example, in the Argo CD UI, when you click *Refresh*, Argo CD connects to an application's target Git repository, retrieves the content, and then generates manifests from that content. Argo CD then compares that target state against the live cluster state.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: Discard it if you feel otherwise: 

to compare the latest code in Git -> to compare the latest code in the Git repository

AppProject::

> In the {gitops-shortname} context, an `AppProject` resource object is a CRD representing a logical grouping of applications within a project that governs where and how an application might manage resources. In addition, as an administrator, you use the `AppProject` CRD to restrict where and how non-admin Argo CD users might access those applications.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: Discard if you feel otherwise:

Can we change the word governs to supervises or oversees?

Author: Prefer to retain the word govern.

> In the {gitops-shortname} context, an `AppProject` resource object is a CRD representing a logical grouping of applications within a project that governs where and how an application might manage resources. In addition, as an administrator, you use the `AppProject` CRD to restrict where and how non-admin Argo CD users might access those applications.

Author: @eromanova97 [Answered](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/76514#discussion_r1644220453) already.

Argo CD instance::
A single installation of Argo CD within a namespace, encapsulating all of the stateful aspects of a running Argo CD.

Instance scopes::
Modes that determine how you can want to operate an Argo CD instance. The available modes are cluster-scoped instance and namespace-scoped instance.

Namespace-scoped instance (Application delivery instance)::

> A mode wherein Argo CD is configured to only manage resources in certain namespaces on a cluster and use them for application delivery.

Reviewer 2: +1 to what Eliska suggestion and can we also change "use them" to "used" to be more minimalistic? Stays in the correct tense too.

> A mode wherein Argo CD is configured to only manage resources in certain namespaces on a cluster and use them for application delivery.

Author: @Dhruv-Soni11The word "used" makes it ambiguous and the reader may think we are referring to ArgoCD. Here we mean resources, so retaining "use them". Thanks for the suggestion, though!

Cluster-scoped instance::
A mode wherein Argo CD is configured to manage every single resource on the cluster including certain cluster-specific resources such as cluster configuration, cluster RBAC, Operator resources, platform Operators, or secrets.

Default Argo CD instance (Default cluster-scoped instance)::

> A default instance that a {gitops-title} Operator instantiates immediately after its installation, in the `openshift-gitops` namespace with additional permissions for managing certain cluster-scoped resources.

Author: @eromanova97 Thanks for the suggestion. Retaining the content as is.

User-defined Argo CD instance::
A custom Argo CD instance that you an install and deploy to manage cluster configurations or deploy applications. By default, any new user-defined instance has permissions to manage resources only in the namespace where it is deployed.

ApplicationSet (Argo CD application set)::
A resource object and a CRD that automatically generates Argo CD applications based on the contents of an `ApplicationSet` CR. Cluster administrators use this CRD to define a single `ApplicationSet` CR to generate and update multiple corresponding Argo CD `Application` CRs.

Argo CD API server::
A gRPC/REST server that exposes the API consumed by the Web UI, CLI, continuous integration (CI), and continuous deployment (CD) systems. 

Ardo CD server (Argo CD-server)::

> A server that serves the API and UI for Argo CD.

Reviewer 3: `Ardo CD` -> `Argo CD` :smile:

> Argo CD resource (`ArgoCD` CR)::

Author: @eromanova97 No, the CRD is different. I have added it to the revised PR.

`ArgoCD` CRD::
A Kubernetes CRD that describes the wanted state for a given Argo CD cluster that allows you to configure the components that make up an Argo CD cluster.

A CRD that describes the desired state for a given Argo CD instance that allows you to configure the components and settings which make up that Argo CD instance.

Application Controller (Argo CD Application Controller)::
A controller that continuously watches the Git repo for changes, monitors running applications, compares the current, live state against the desired target state, and deploys new changes. Examples include Argo CD Application Controller  detecting OutOfSync application state and optionally taking corrective action.

Argo CD repository server (Argo CD-repo-server)::
An Argo CD component that reads from Git repositories, generates corresponding application manifests, executes custom configuration management tooling, and returns the result to the Argo CD Application Controller. 

ApplicationSet Controller (Argo CD ApplicationSet Controller)::

> A custom Kubernetes controller that exists within Argo CD and adds support for a custom `ApplicationSet` CRD.  This controller automatically generates Argo CD Applications based on the contents of an `ApplicationSet` CR and manages them, across multiple clusters declaratively, from a single mono-repository.

Reviewer: Also I was not sure about the commas around "across multiple clusters declaratively ". Is that supposed to be an inserted sentence? Because it did not seem like that to me.

Notifications Controller (Argo CD Notifications Controller)::
A controller that continuously monitors Argo CD applications and provides a flexible way to notify users about important changes in the application state. 

Progressive delivery::

> In the {gitops-shortname} context, progressive delivery is a process of releasing application updates in a controlled and gradual manner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A process of releasing application updates in a controlled and gradual manner.
```

Author: @eromanova97 https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/76514#discussion_r1644220453 already. Progressive delivery is a process of releasing product updates in a controlled and gradual manner. For GitOps, progressive delivery is a process of releasing **application** updates in a controlled and gradual manner. Hence keeping the starter as is.

Reviewer: Noted, thanks!

Argo Rollouts::
A controller you can use for managing the progressive deployment of applications hosted on Kubernetes and {OCP} clusters. This controller has a set of CRDs that provides advanced deployment capabilities such as blue-green, canary, canary analysis, and experimentation.

Single tenancy::
A software architecture where a single software instance serves a single user or group of users.

Multitenancy::

> A software architecture where a single software instance serves multiple, distinct user groups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A software architecture where a single software instance serves multiple distinct user groups.
```
I think the comma here disrupts the flow of the sentence.

Local cluster::

> A cluster upon which you install Argo CD.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A cluster where you install Argo CD.
```
Suggestion for better flow.

Remote cluster::

> A cluster that you can add to Argo CD either declaratively or by using the {gitops-shortname} CLI. Remote cluster is distinct from the local cluster where Argo CD is installed on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A cluster that you can add to Argo CD either declaratively or by using the {gitops-shortname} CLI. Remote cluster is distinct from the local cluster where Argo CD is installed.
```

Resource Exclusion::
A configuration you use to exclude resources from discovery and sync so that Argo CD is unaware of them.

Resource Inclusion::
A configuration you use to include resources to discover, sync, and restrict the list of managed resources globally.

ArgoCD project::

> In the {gitops-shortname} context, an Argo CD project is an entity within Argo CD that refers to the Argo CD open source project's link:https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user-guide/projects[specific concept of projects], and the corresponding link:https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/operator-manual/declarative-setup/#projects[AppProject` CR].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An entity within Argo CD that refers to the Argo CD open source project's link:https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user-guide/projects[specific concept of projects], and the corresponding link:https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/operator-manual/declarative-setup/#projects[AppProject` CR].
```

Author: @eromanova97 https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/76514#discussion_r1644220453 already. Here AppProject is GitOps-specific and upstream refers it as Projects, which confuses downstream users as we use 'project` in OCP as a namespace concept. We also have a [bug](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHDEVDOCS-5858) asking for clarity. hence keeping the starter as is.

+

> You may deploy Argo CD applications in an Argo CD project across different namespaces or clusters. In contrast, an link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/getting_started/openshift-overview.html#getting-started-openshift-common-terms_openshift-overview[OpenShift project] is necessarily restricted to a single namespace and is equivalent in concept to a namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might deploy Argo CD applications in an Argo CD project across different namespaces or clusters. In contrast, an link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/getting_started/openshift-overview.html#getting-started-openshift-common-terms_openshift-overview[OpenShift project] is restricted to a single namespace and is equivalent in concept to a namespace.
```
The word "necessarily" does not add any additional meaning here, so I would omit it for minimalism purposes.

+
Argo CD project controls the behavior of Argo CD by restricting access to Git repository and remote clusters. Examples include using Argo CD project to control users by restricting who can access certain Argo CD applications or cluster resources through Argo CD UI or Argo CD CLI.

> 

Reviewer 3: :+1:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * understanding_openshift_gitops/about-redhat-openshift-gitops.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="gitops-openshift-go-common-terms_{context}"]

> = Glossary of common terms for OpenShift {gitops-shortname}

Reviewer 4: _OpenShift {gitops-shortname}_ doesn't seem to be a common term, only one time in the repo that I can find. Should this be just _{gitops-shortname}_

This glossary defines common OpenShift {gitops-shortname} terms.

Application Controller (Argo CD Application Controller)::

> A controller that continuously watches the Git repository for changes, monitors running applications, compares the live state against the desired target state, and deploys new changes. Examples include Argo CD Application Controller  detecting OutOfSync application state and optionally taking corrective action.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A controller that continuously watches the Git repository for changes, monitors running applications, compares the live state against the desired target state, and deploys new changes. Examples include Argo CD the Application Controller detecting an OutOfSync application state and optionally taking corrective action.
```

Author: changed: Examples include Argo CD the Application Controller detecting an OutOfSync application state and optionally taking corrective action.

ApplicationSet Controller (Argo CD ApplicationSet Controller)::
A custom Kubernetes controller that exists within Argo CD and adds support for an `ApplicationSet` CRD.  This controller automatically generates Argo CD applications based on the contents of an `ApplicationSet` CR and manages them across multiple clusters declaratively from a single mono-repository.

AppProject::
A CRD representing a logical grouping of applications within a project that governs where and how an application might manage resources. In addition, as an administrator, you use the `AppProject` CRD to restrict where and how non-admin Argo CD users might access those applications.

Argo CD API server::
A gRPC/REST server that exposes the API consumed by the web UI, CLI, continuous integration (CI), and continuous deployment (CD) systems. 

Argo CD::
An open-source declarative tool that automates the continuous deployment of Kubernetes-based infrastructure and applications across clusters and development lifecycles.

> Argo CD application::

Author: Not completely. We use terms such as `Application` custom resource (CR) and Argo CD application in our documentation. The descriptions help the users understand why and when we use these terms and in turn help them understand the given context better.

An application that tracks the continuous deployment of individual Kubernetes resources from the {gitops-shortname} repository, where the resources are defined as manifests, to a target Kubernetes cluster.

`ArgoCD` CRD::
A Kubernetes CRD that describes the wanted state for a given Argo CD cluster that allows you to configure the components that make up an Argo CD cluster.

Argo CD instance::
A single installation of Argo CD within a namespace, encapsulating all of the stateful aspects of a running Argo CD.

Argo CD project::

> An entity within Argo CD that refers to the Argo CD open source project's link:https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user-guide/projects[specific concept of projects], and the corresponding link:https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/operator-manual/declarative-setup/#projects[`AppProject` CR].

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
An entity within an Argo CD that refers to the Argo CD open source project's link:https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user-guide/projects[specific concept of projects], and the corresponding link:https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/operator-manual/declarative-setup/#projects[`AppProject` CR].
```

+

> You might deploy Argo CD applications in an Argo CD project across different namespaces or clusters. In contrast, an link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/getting_started/openshift-overview.html#getting-started-openshift-common-terms_openshift-overview[OpenShift project] is restricted to a single namespace and is equivalent in concept to a namespace.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You might deploy an Argo CD applications in an Argo CD project across different namespaces or clusters. In contrast, an link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/getting_started/openshift-overview.html#getting-started-openshift-common-terms_openshift-overview[OpenShift project] is restricted to a single namespace and is equivalent in concept to a namespace.
```

> You might deploy Argo CD applications in an Argo CD project across different namespaces or clusters. In contrast, an link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/getting_started/openshift-overview.html#getting-started-openshift-common-terms_openshift-overview[OpenShift project] is restricted to a single namespace and is equivalent in concept to a namespace.

Author: The content is removed and the review suggestion is not relevant anymore.

+

> Argo CD project controls the behavior of Argo CD by restricting access to Git repository and remote clusters. Examples include using Argo CD project to control users by restricting who can access certain Argo CD applications or cluster resources through Argo CD UI or Argo CD CLI.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Argo CD project controls the behavior of an Argo CD instance by restricting access to Git repositories and remote clusters. Examples include using the Argo CD project to control users by restricting who can access certain Argo CD applications or cluster resources through the Argo CD UI or Argo CD CLI.
```

Argo CD repository server (Argo CD-repo-server)::

> An Argo CD component that reads from Git repositories, generates corresponding application manifests, runs custom configuration management tooling, and returns the result to the Argo CD Application Controller.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
An Argo CD component that reads from source repositories (for example Git, Helm or OCI), generates corresponding application manifests, runs custom configuration management tooling, and returns the result to the Argo CD Application Controller.
```

Argo CD resource (`ArgoCD` CR)::

> A CR that describes the wanted state for a given Argo CD instance that allows you to configure the components and settings which make up that Argo CD instance.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A CR that describes the wanted state for a given Argo CD instance that allows you to configure the components and settings that make up that Argo CD instance.
```

> Argo CD server (Argo CD-server)::

Reviewer 5: Hasn't this been mentioned above already?

Author: I do not see it anywhere. If you see it, please help me locate it. Thank you!

A server that provides the API and UI for Argo CD.

Argo Rollouts::
A controller that you can use for managing the progressive deployment of applications hosted on Kubernetes and {OCP} clusters. This controller has a set of CRDs that provides advanced deployment capabilities such as blue-green, canary, canary analysis, and experimentation.

Cluster-scoped instance::

> A mode in which Argo CD is configured to manage all resources on the cluster including certain cluster-specific resources such as cluster configuration, cluster RBAC, Operator resources, platform Operators, or secrets.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A mode in which an Argo CD instance is configured to manage all resources on the cluster including certain cluster-specific resources such as cluster configuration, cluster RBAC, Operator resources, platform Operators, or secrets.
```

Control plane ({gitops-shortname} control plane)::

> In the {gitops-shortname} context, you can have a control plane for every Argo CD you install. A {gitops-shortname} control plane is any namespace where you can install an Argo CD. This control plane allows you to provision, manage, and operate Argo CD across networks, instances, and clusters. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In the {gitops-shortname} context, you can have a control plane for every Argo CD instance you install. A {gitops-shortname} control plane is any namespace where you can install an Argo CD instance. This control plane allows you to provision, manage, and operate Argo CD across networks, instances, and clusters. 
```

Author: Suggestion changes the technical meaning. I am retaining content as is.

+

> Within a control plane namespace, Argo CD maintains a set of following Kubernetes resources, which define the continuous deployment between the source Git repository and destination clusters:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Within a control plane namespace, an Argo CD instance maintains the following Kubernetes resources, which define the continuous deployment between the source Git repository and destination clusters:
```

Author: Retaining the content as is.

* Argo CD `Application` CRs
* `ConfigMap` API objects
* `Secret` objects representing the {gitops-shortname} repository credentials and cluster credentials for deployment targets

> `openshift-gitops` is the control plane namespace for the default Argo CD instance.

Reviewer 4: Should this be in the list?

Author: No

Declarative setup::
A declarative description of the infrastructure required in your specified environment, for system and application setup or configuration. You can specify this description in a YAML configuration file in the Git repository. The declarative setup contains an automated process to make your environment and infrastucture match the described state. Examples include defining Argo CD applications, projects, and settings declaratively by using YAML manifests.

Default Argo CD instance (Default cluster-scoped instance)::
A default instance that a {gitops-title} Operator instantiates immediately after its installation, in the `openshift-gitops` namespace, with additional permissions for managing certain cluster-scoped resources.

{gitops-shortname}::

> A declarative way to implement continuous deployment for cloud native applications. In {gitops-shortname}, a Git repository contains deployment resources, which Argo CD then keeps synchronizing with its cluster state.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A declarative way to implement continuous deployment for cloud native applications. In {gitops-shortname}, a Git repository contains deployment resources, which an Argo CD instance keeps synchronizing with its cluster state.
```

{gitops-shortname} CLI ({gitops-shortname} `argocd` CLI)::
A tool to configure and manage {gitops-title} and Argo CD resources from the command line. 

Instance scopes::

> Modes that determine how you want to operate an Argo CD instance. The available modes are cluster-scoped instance and namespace-scoped instance.

Reviewer 4: Might help to highlight the mode names with some markup. 

```suggestion
Modes that determine how you want to operate an Argo CD instance. The available modes are `cluster-scoped instance` and `namespace-scoped instance`.
```
```suggestion
Modes that determine how you want to operate an Argo CD instance. The available modes are _cluster-scoped instance_ and _namespace-scoped instance_.
```

Live state::
The live state of application resources on a target cluster.

Local cluster::
A cluster where you install Argo CD.

Manifest::
In the {gitops-shortname} context, a manifest is a YAML representation of Kubernetes resources defined within a {gitops-shortname} repository, with the intent to deploy those resources to a target Kubernetes cluster. Examples include the YAML representation of resources such as `Deployment`, `ConfigMap`, or `Secret`.

Multitenancy::

> A software architecture where a single software instance serves multiple yet distinct user groups.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A software architecture where a single software instance serves multiple distinct user groups.
```
or
```suggestion
A software architecture where a single software instance serves multiple, yet distinct user groups.
```

Namespace-scoped instance (Application delivery instance)::

> A mode in which Argo CD is configured to only manage resources in certain namespaces on a cluster and use them for application delivery.

Reviewer 4: What is _them_? Resources? 
Also, the _only_ should be as close to the term it modifies as possible. 
```suggestion
A mode in which an Argo CD instance is configured to manage resources in only certain namespaces on a cluster and use the resources for application delivery.
```

Notifications Controller (Argo CD Notifications Controller)::
A controller that continuously monitors Argo CD applications and provides a flexible way to notify users about important changes in the application state. 

Progressive delivery::
In the {gitops-shortname} context, progressive delivery is a process of releasing application updates in a controlled and gradual manner.

{gitops-title}::

>  An Operator that uses Argo CD as the declarative {gitops-shortname} engine to enable {gitops-shortname} workflows across multicluster OpenShift and Kubernetes infrastructure.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
 An Operator that uses Argo CD as the declarative {gitops-shortname} engine to enable {gitops-shortname} workflows across multicluster OpenShift and Kubernetes infrastructures.
```

Refresh::

> The process to compare the latest code in the Git repository with the live state and determine the difference. For example, in the Argo CD UI, when you click *Refresh*, Argo CD connects to an application's target Git repository, retrieves the content, and then generates manifests from that content. Argo CD then compares that target state against the live cluster state.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The process of comparing the latest code in the Git repository with the live state and determining the difference. For example, in the Argo CD UI, when you click *Refresh*, the Argo CD instance connects to an application's target Git repository, retrieves the content, and then generates manifests from that content. the Argo CD instance then compares that target state against the live cluster state.
```

Author: Love the 1st part of the suggestion, addressed it. However, I am ignoring the last two suggestions as they change the technical meaning. It is argo CD and not instance.

Remote cluster::

> A cluster that you can add to Argo CD either declaratively or by using the {gitops-shortname} CLI. Remote cluster is distinct from the local cluster where Argo CD is installed.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A cluster that you can add to only either declaratively or by using the {gitops-shortname} CLI. Remote cluster is distinct from the local cluster where Argo CD is installed.
```

Resource Exclusion::

> A configuration you use to exclude resources from discovery and sync so that Argo CD is unaware of them.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A configuration you use to exclude resources from discovery and sync so that an Argo CD instance is unaware of them.
```

Resource Inclusion::
A configuration you use to include resources to discover, sync, and restrict the list of managed resources globally.

Single tenancy::
A software architecture where a single software instance serves a single user or group of users.

Sync::
The process of synchronizing the live state of an application's cluster resources with the target state defined within the Git repository to ensure consistency. Examples include syncing an application by applying changes to a cluster by using the Argo CD UI.

Sync status::
The status of an application that indicates whether the live state matches the target state.

Target state::
The wanted state of application resources, as represented by files in a Git repository.

User-defined Argo CD instance::
A custom Argo CD instance that you install and deploy to manage cluster configurations or deploy applications. By default, any new user-defined instance has permissions to manage resources only in the namespace where it is deployed.

Workload::

> Any process usually defined within resources such as `Deployment`, `StatefulSet`, `ReplicaSet`, `Job`, or `Pod`, running within a container. Examples include a Spring Boot application, a NodeJS Express application, or a Ruby on Rails application.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Any process, usually defined within resources such as `Deployment`, `StatefulSet`, `ReplicaSet`, `Job`, or `Pod`object, that is running within a container. Examples include a Spring Boot application, a NodeJS Express application, or a Ruby on Rails application.
```

Author: @mburke5678 thanks for the suggestion. Please note that here Pod is a resource, hence retaining the content for Pod as is. However, I am implementing the other two suggestions.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * understanding_openshift_gitops/about-redhat-openshift-gitops.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="gitops-openshift-go-common-terms_{context}"]
= Glossary of common terms for OpenShift {gitops-shortname}

This glossary defines common OpenShift {gitops-shortname} terms.

Application Controller (Argo CD Application Controller)::
A controller that that performs the following actions:

* Continuously watches the Git repository for changes
* Monitors running applications
* Compares the live state against the desired target state
* Deploys new changes

+

> Examples include Argo CD Application Controller detecting an OutOfSync application state and optionally taking corrective action.

Reviewer 6: Can this be marked up?
```suggestion
Examples include Argo CD Application Controller detecting an `OutOfSync` application state and optionally taking corrective action.
```

Live state::
The live state of application resources on a target cluster.

Local cluster::
A cluster where you install Argo CD.

Manifest::
In the {gitops-shortname} context, a manifest is a YAML representation of Kubernetes resources defined within a {gitops-shortname} repository, with the intent to deploy those resources to a target Kubernetes cluster. Examples include the YAML representation of resources such as `Deployment`, `ConfigMap`, or `Secret`.

Multitenancy::
A software architecture where a single software instance serves multiple distinct user groups.

Namespace-scoped instance (Application delivery instance)::
A mode in which Argo CD is configured to manage resources in only certain namespaces on a cluster and use the resources for application delivery.

Notifications Controller (Argo CD Notifications Controller)::
A controller that continuously monitors Argo CD applications and provides a flexible way to notify users about important changes in the application state. 

Progressive delivery::
In the {gitops-shortname} context, progressive delivery is a process of releasing application updates in a controlled and gradual manner.

{gitops-title}::

>  An Operator that uses Argo CD as the declarative {gitops-shortname} engine to enable {gitops-shortname} workflows across multicluster OpenShift and Kubernetes infrastructures.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
An Operator that uses Argo CD as the declarative {gitops-shortname} engine to enable {gitops-shortname} workflows across multicluster OpenShift and Kubernetes infrastructures.
```
